So how can we provide values
for these environment variables
or for this port environment variable?
Well, in your GitHub Actions Workflow definition file,
there are different places
where environment variable values can be provided.
For example, you can provide some values
right here on the overall workflow level.
You do this by adding the env field here
on the same level as you have name and on,
and the nested below this end field and therefore indented,
you add your environment variables.
For example here, we could, for example say,
that for all jobs in this workflow,
we wanna use the same database name.
The address and password and username might be different
but the name of the database should always be the same
because it would be fair to assume
that even if we're using different database servers
for testing and production,
the name of the database on that server
will always be the same.
Therefore, we could grab this MONGODB_DB_NAME
environment variable here,
which is used for setting the database name
and add this here as a key under env.
And then as a value, you provide the value
that should be injected in the code when that server,
when that backend application is started
as part of our workflow.
Here, we could for example use gha-demo,
but the name is up to you.
By the way, here in this example, I'm using MONGODB
which is a database engine
and a company providing various database services.
It is of course, just one example.
The general approach and idea would be the same
no matter which kind of database engine you are using.
And you also don't just use environment variables
for databases of course.
But here, we now set this environment variable
on workflow level since I added the env key here.
And setting this on workflow level simply means,
that this environment variable,
this MONGODB_DB_NAME variable,
will be available in all jobs
unless a job overrides this variable
by defining a variable of the same name,
which is not the case here.
Now, of course, not limited
to defining environment variables on workflow level.
You can also define them on job level.
For example here, for the test job,
we could define some environment variables
by adding the env key under this test job.
So indented and nested under this test job.
Now any environment variables specified here
will only be available in this test job
and not in any other jobs.
And here we could provide our cluster address,
the MONGODB cluster address, and also the MONGODB
username and password environment variables.
Because it would be reasonable to assume that for testing,
we wanna use a specific database with its own credentials
that probably differs from our production database.
Now in this demo workflow,
we have no other job that needs to connect to the database
but if we had other jobs,
then they might be using different servers and credentials
and therefore, defining this on job level
might make a lot of sense,
but it will of course depend on your exact use case.
Now, in order to define our values here,
we of course need database,
and therefore in the next lecture, I'll quickly create one.